# DNA-Nanoscope
DNA Nanoscope "sequencing by imaging" reconstruction scripts

===============================================================
1. Demultiplex reads from different experiments: The ends of the reads are scanned for sequencing barcodes (using local sequence alignment) and sorted into subdirectories based on barcodes identified. The MATLAB command used was:
sort_barcoded_reads(fastq_dir,ONT_barcodes)
where:fastq_dir is the path of the fastq sequence files andONT_barcodes specifies the sequencing barcodes and their reverse complements.The output is written into fastq files with reads that are sorted into sub-directories corresponding to the identity of the sequencing barcodes.—————————————————————————————————2. Extract record lengths and assign to correct target pair: Reads are scanned to identify the unique staple barcode sequences associated with each distance record. The length of the repeat region between the barcode sequences is extracted and assigned to the appropriate target pair. The following MATLAB command was executed for each directory containing reads from the same experiment:
pairwise_record_list = extract_pairwise_record_lengths(target_barcodes,path, library_size, color_length)where:target_barcodes specifies the staple barcode sequences,path specifies the path of the fastq reads,library_size specifies the number of sequencing libraries that were combined for a single run,color_length specifies the length of the auxiliary tag sequence, andpairwise_record_list is the output, a matrix of size (n, n, 2001) where n is the number of target points and cell (i, j, k) holds the number of distance records of length k bases (only counting the repeat region) between points i and j. All distance records of length > 2000 are stored in the slice (:, :, 2001).pairwise_record_list variables from different sequencing runs of the same experiment were combined by simply adding them.—————————————————————————————————
3. Infer the measured distance between every target pair: The distribution of distance record lengths between every pair of points was examined to identify the major peak (in base pairs), which was then converted into a distance (in nanometers) by applying the calibration function. The MATLAB function used was:[pairwise_distances, pairwise_peak_heights] = finddist_geometry(pairwise_records_list,calibration_fun)where:pairwise_records_list is the output of extract_pairwise_record_lengths (see previous step),calibration_fun is a cfit object that holds the calibration function of the ruler, which maps bases to nanometers,pairwise_distances is one output, an array of measured distances for each pair of points, andpairwise_peak_heights is the peak height (in bases) corresponding to the distances measured. It is a measure of the confidence in the measurement.—————————————————————————————————
4. Reconstruct geometry from pairwise distance measurements: The distance measurements are integrated into a coherent embedding of the targets in the 2D Euclidean plane, using the following MATLAB function:[theta, prune, score] = solveDGP(pairwise_distances, pairwise_peak_heights, opt_threshold)where:pairwise_distances and pairwise_peak_heights are the outputs from finddist_geometry (see previous step),opt_threshold is a parameter used to prune unreliable measurements and to generate weights for measurements reflecting their reliability (see supplementary text for details on how opt_threshold is auto-set),theta is a list of coordinates, specifying the final embedding,prune is a logical-valued array indicating which target points were dropped from the final reconstruction, andscore is a measure of the internal consistency of the embedding. See supplementary text S2D. The final embedding is compared to the designed pattern by superimposing them to minimize the RMSD (root-mean-square deviation). The MATLAB script used is:[theta_translated, lrms] = superimpose(theta, theta_designed, prune)where:theta and prune are the outputs from solveDGP,theta_designed contains a list of coordinates specifying the designed pattern,theta_translated is the superimposition of the final embedding that minimizes the RMSD between the designed and reconstructed pattern, andlrms is the corresponding RMSD.===============================================================